6 Advantages of Cloud Computing
	Trade capital expense for variable expense
	Benefit from massive economies of scale
	Stop guessing about capacity
	Increase speed and agility
	Stop spending money running/maintaining data centers
	Go global in minutes

3 Types of Cloud Computing
	Infrastructure as a Service (IAAS)
	Platform as a Service (PAAS)
	Software as a Service (SAAS)

3 Types of Cloud Computing Deployments
	Public Cloud – AWS, Azure, Google Cloud Platform
	Hybrid – Mix of public and private
	Private Cloud (or on-premise) – You manage it in your data center. Openstack or Vmware		
	
Around the World with AWS
	Region 		Geographic area consisting of 2 or more availability zones
	Availability Zone 		A data center
	Edge Location 		CDN Endpoints for CloudFront
		

Let’s Log Into AWS
Support Plans
	Basic
	Developer
		Experimenting with AWS
		$29/month
		One person can ask technical questions through support center, 12-24 hour support rate
	Business
		24/7 support by phone
		Full access to AWS Trusted Advisor
		$100/mo
	Enterprise
		$15,000/month
		Everything in business + technical account manager
		15 min response time for critical support cases

Create Billing Alarm
	Click Name at top-right, click My Billing Dashboard
	Enable Billing Alert
	Add the threshold in Cloudwatch and add e-mail address		
	
Identify Access Management
	3 ways to access AWS platform:
		Via AWS Console
		Programatically using command line
		Using Software Development Kit (SDK)
	Root account
		Full admin access
		Should never give away
		Instead, create a user for each individual in your organization and secure root account with MFA
	Groups
		Place to store your users
		Users will inherit all permissions that group has
		To set permissions for a group, need to set policies for that group using JSON	
		
S3 (Simple Storage Service)		
	Overview
		Provides developers and IT teams with secure, durable, highly-scalable object storage
		Safe place to store your files
		Object-based storage (pictures, Word files, videos), not operating system or database
		Files can be anywhere from 0 bytes to 5 TB in size
		Unlimited storage, but you pay by the gig
		Files are stored in buckets
		Bucket is a folder in the cloud
		Buckets are universal namespace. Must be unique globally.
		URL looks like https://s3-eu-west-1.amazonaws.com/acloudguru
			Region + Region # + amazonaws.com + bucket name
		You will receive HTTP 200 code if file upload is successful
		
	Data Consistency Model
		Read after Write consistency for PUTS of new objects
			If you read a file as soon as you upload it, you’ll be able to read the file
		Eventual consistency for overwrite PUTS and DELETES (can take some time to propogate)
			If you update a file and overwrite the old version, you may get the old file or the new file. It will eventually show up.
			You may be updating to one availability zone, may take time to propagate to other availability zones		
			
	S3 Key-Value Store
		S3 is object based, objects consist of:
			Key (name of object, e.g. hello.txt
			Data in file (sequence of bytes)
			Version ID (important for versioning)
			Metadata (data about data, e.g. tags)
			Subresources:
				Access Control List
				Torrents			
				
	Other Points
		Built for 99.99% availability
		Amazon guarantees 99.99999999999% (11 x 9s) durability
			If you upload x amount of files, 99.99999999999% of those files will actually be uploaded (you won’t lose any files)
		Tiered storage availability
		Lifecycle management
			If a file is over 30 days old, move it from one storage tier to another and eventually archive to Glacier
		Versioning
			Multiple versions of a file
		Encryption
		Secure data with Access Control Lists and Bucket Policies
			Bucket policies: Policy is for a specific bucket
			ACL: Individual file level, control who can access a specific file

	S3 Storage Tiers/Classes
		S3 Standard
			99.99% availability
			99.99999999999% durability
			Stored redundantly across multiple devices (multiple disks) and multiple facilities (multiple availability zones)
			Designed to sustain loss of 2 facilities concurrently
		S3 – IA (Infrequently Accessed)
			Data accessed less frequently but requires rapid access when needed
			Lower fee than Standard but charged a retrieval fee
		S3 One Zone – IA
			Same as S3 – IA but do not require multiple availability zone data resilience
			Only stored in one availability zone
		Glacier
			Used for archival only
			Cheapest
			Expedited, standard, or bulk
				Expedited: Restored within few mins, high fee
				Standard: 3-5 hours for restore
				Bulk: 5-12 hours
			No retrieval fee for Standard, only for the other three
	
	
	S3 – Charges
		Charged for:
			Storage
			Requests
			Storage management pricing
				Tags that define who owns an object
			Data transfer pricing
				Transferring from one region to another
			Transfer acceleration
				Fast and easy secure transfers across long distances
	
	S3 Transfer Acceleration
		Users upload to an edge location instead of directly to S3 bucket
		Once it goes to an edge location, it automatically gets distributed to the S3 bucket
		File goes across Amazon’s backbone to transfer much faster
		Read the S3 FAQ before taking the exam!				
		
		
	Creating an S3 Bucket
		Buckets must have unique names
		Note: Interface for S3 is Global (similar to IAM), but buckets created can be deployed in any region
		Bucket names must be DNS compliant (3-63 characters, no invalid characters)
		By default, buckets are private (recommended)
		You can change storage class and encryption on the fly by using the More menu

	Setting public access
		Trying to open a file through a URL won’t work by default because public read access is not enabled. Need to enable when uploading.
		Click box next to file > More > Make public
		Another way: Click into file > Permissions tab > Everyone (under public access) > Read Object

	Transfer acceleration
		Click Properties in bucket
		Advanced Settings > Transfer acceleration > Enable
		S3 has a feature to allow you to test your transfer speeds to different regions around the world

	Cross Region Replication
		Management > Replication
		Allows you to replicate bucket in one region to bucket in another region in the world
		Useful for disaster recovery
		Any object upload to first bucket is automatically replicated to second bucket

	S3 for Web Pages
		S3 can host static web pages (not dynamic like WordPress or PHP)
		It will scale automatically, will scale with demand. Useful for large number of requests.
		You can use bucket policies to make an entire bucket public (used for static websites)		
		

CloudFront
	Amazon’s CDN network
	Used to deliver entire website, including dynamic, static, streaming, and interactive content using edge locations
	Requests for content automatically routed to nearest ege location so content is delivered with best performance possible
	
	CDN
		Content-delivery network
		System of services around the world that deliver web pages or web page content to a user based on user geographic location, 
		origin of the webpage, and content delivery server
		Works with origin types listed below
		Also works with non-AWS origins

	Edge Location
		Location where content will be cached
		Similar to AWS Region/AZ
		As close to user as possible

	Origin
		Origin of files that CDN will distribute
		S3 bucket, EC2 instance, Elastic Load Balancer, or Route53

	Distribution
		Name given to the CDN which consists of a collection of edge locations
		First time a user goes to a website, it’ll check a local edge location to see if website asset is there
		If not, it will download the asset from the origin and cache it to the edge location
		Next time someone tries to access, they will get the cached version from a local edge location
		Reduces stress on web servers and increases speed to download large files

	Distribution Types
		Web distribution – Used for websites
		RTMP – Used for media streaming

	Setting up CloudFront
		Choose Web distrbution
		Origin Domain Name: Choose an S3 bucket
		Origin Path: You can choose subdirectories for your origin
			Once it’s deployed, you will see a domain name. Use that and the name of a file in your bucket to access.

	Exam Tips
		Content comes from Origin
		Cached at a local Edge Location
		Takes awhile for the first person to access, much quicker every time after that because it’s cached geographically close to you		

EC2 (Elastic Cloud Compute)
	Setup
		VPC: Virtual data center in the cloud
			Deploy all EC2 instances into a VPC
		AMI: Using Amazon Linux AMI because it includes stuff to connect to AWS
		Instance: Choosing t2.micro because it’s usually used to test in dev
		Instance Details:
			Network: Keep default VPC
			Subnet: Choose which availability zone you want to be put into
			Auto-assign Public IP: Allows you to assign a public IP so you can SSH into instance
			Shutdown behavior: Choose what happens if your EC2 instance turns out (stop or have Amazon terminate for you)
			Enable termination protection: Prevents people from accidentally shutting down your instance
		Storage:
			8GB is default
			Volume Type: General purpose is most common, Provisioned IOPS lets you choose a very fast disk (database server), Magnetic is a very slow disk (file server)
		Tags: Allow us to add tags like Department and Employee ID to help with cost tracking later on
		Security Group: Virtual firewall in the cloud
			Open ports like 22 for SSH or 3389 for RDP (Windows) or 80 for HTTP
	
	Connect to the EC2 server
		Open Terminal
		chmod 400 MyVirginiaKP.pem – Protects file from accidental overwriting
		ssh ec2-user@54.242.147.206 -i MyVirginiaKP.pem to connect
		sudo su for root
		yum update to update security patches

	Exam Tips
		EC2 is compute-based, it’s not serverless. It is a server!
		Use private key to connect to EC2
		Security groups are virtual firewalls in the cloud. Need to open ports in order to use them (22 for SSH, 80 for HTTP, 443 for HTTPS, 3389 for RDP)
		Always design for failure, have one EC2 instance in each availability zone


AWS Command Line
	Use aws configure on command line to set up login details
		Enter Access Key and Secret Access Key
		Region name: us-east-1
		No output format
	aws s3 ls to view s3 buckets
	aws s3 mb s3://myacloudgurubucket2018 to make a bucket
	aws s3 cp hello.txt s3://myacloudgurubucket2018sheil to upload EC2 file to S3 bucket

	Tips
	Interact with AWS in 3 ways:
		Using the console
		Using the command line interface (CLI)
		Using the software development kits

Using Roles
	Prevent account from getting hacked
	cd /~.aws and rm -rf credentials to remove credentials file
	Roles are a secure way to grant permission to entities that you trust
	AWS Console > IAM > Roles
	Create new EC2 role, choose S3 Admin access, and name the role
	In EC2, find the instance, choose Actions > Instance Settings > Attach/Replace IAM Role
	No Role to My Admin S3 Access (the role I created in previous step)
	This process allows me to access S3 via CLI without having to store credentials on the EC2 instance itself
	
	Tips
		Roles are much more secure than using access key IDs and secret access keys
		Much easier to manage
		Can apply roles to EC2 instances at any time (not just when it boots up)
		Changes take place immediately
		Roles are universal, no need to specify region. Similar to users

Build a Website

	Connect to EC2 with CLI
	Web servers need either Apache (Linux) or IIS (Windows)
	yum install httpd -yes to install
	service httpd start to start server
	Anything you put into /var/www/html will be on the website
	aws s3 cp s3://myacloudgurubucket2018sheil /var/www/html --recursive to copy files from S3 to web server on EC2

Databases

	Relational Database Service (RDS)	

	Types:
		SQL Server
		Oracle
		MySQL Server
		PostgreSQL
		Aurora (Amazon’s own database)
		MariaDB
	Two key features:
		Multi availability zones for disaster recovery
		Read replicas for performance improvement
	Multi AZ: Exact copy of your database in case the primary goes down
		Disaster recovery
	Read replica: Spread read access across five databases, only one is for writing
		Scaling out / performance

	Nonrelational Databases
		Collection (table)
		Documents (row)
		Key-value pairs (fields)
			Allows you to add in extra fields all the time
			Amazon DynamoDB is Amazon’s nonrelational/NoSQL database
				Fast, flexible
				Scales with your application
	Aurora
		Relational, Amazon’s own
		6 copies of itself
		5 times better performance than MySQL, 1/10 price point
		Choose Aurora if you have an RDS
		Choose DynamoDB if you have nonrelational
	
	Data Warehousing
		Used for business intelligence
		Used to pull in large and complex datasets
		Used by management to do queries (current performance targets, etc)
		Redshift is Amazon’s data warehouse in the cloud for business intelligence
			Start with a few hundred GB of data, scale to petabyte or more

	Autoscaling
		Review: EC2 connects to one database that is duplicated to a second database (redundancy).
		No redundancy on the EC2 itself. Autoscaling group will fix this.
		You can set up how many instances you want with Autoscaling. When one fails, it will automatically create a new one
		You can set a startup script to run when each new instance starts

Route 53
	Amazon’s DNS service
	Domain registration

Elastic Beanstalk
	Allows you to deploy everything (provisins everything like EC2 and RDS and everything else) all at one button
	Creates load balancers, auto-scaling groups, security groups, etc.
	Provisioning EC2 instances, installs PHP

CloudFormation
	Way of scripting out infrastructure
	Turning infrastructure into code
	Codify creating EC2 instances, security groups, etc
	JSON that describes your cloud environment – this is a template
	Elastic Beanstack and CloudFormation are free, but you pay for the resources that are provisioned as a result of using EB and CF

Architecting for the Cloud – Best Practices
	Why Cloud Computing?
		IT assets becoming programmable resources
		Global availability and unlimited capacity
		High-level managed services, incl call center functionality, text to voice, machine learning, etc
		Security built in (AWS manages security)
	
	Design Principles – Scalability
		Scale Up – Start with a small virtual machine and increase size
		Scale Out – Start with an elastic load balancer, add more virtual machines as your project gets bigger
			Stateless Applications – Lambda (no state is stored)
			Stateless Components – Instead of storing state on server, it stores state on cookies on user’s browser
			Stateful Components – Can store some stuff with databases that can scale with you (add replicas or increase size)
			Distributed Processing – Break your data into pieces and have EC2 instances work on them separately in parallel (Elastic MapReduce)
	
	Design Priciples – Disposable Resources
		Treat your services like cattle, not pets
		If a server dies, just replace with another one
			Bootstrapping – Scripts allow you to set up an instance automatically, setup Apache
			Golden images – Take an Amazon Machine Image (AMI) and use it for autoscaling
			Hybrid of the two
	
	Design Principles – Infrastructure as Code
		Cloudformation
		Allows you to deploy infrastructure to many clients very easily without manually setting anything up

	Design Principles – Automation
		Use alarms, events to automate creation/maintenance of infrastructure
		Loose coupling: Make sure failure in one component doesn’t affect other pieces of infrastructure
			Well defined interfaces: Use RESTful API
			Service discovery: Don’t use fixed IP addresses. Instead use DNS names/endpoints.
			Asyncronous integration: Messages (actions) remain in queue so if one EC2 goes down, the actions are stored in queues for the next EC2 to pick up
			Graceful failure: If something breaks, nicely tell the user and report to developers

	Design Principles – Serverless not services
		Managed Services (other compnanies like Paypal)
		Serverless Architectures (Lambda, DynamoDB, etc)

	Design Principles – Databases
		Relational: Aurora
			High scalability
			High availability (6 copies of data at any given time)
				Data needs joins or complex transactions
		Nonrelational: DynamoDB
			High scalability
			High availability
			Data does not need joins or complex transactions
		Data Warehouse: Red Shift
			Meant for data for business analysis
			Red Shift is highly scalability and available
			Red Shift not meant for online transaction processing (not production database)

	Design Principles – Search
		Cloud Search or Elastic Search
		Cloud search: less control, easier
		Elastic search: more control
		Both are very scalability

	Design Principles – Misc
		Remove single points of failure, everything should have redundancy
		Detect failure with monitoring (Health checks)
		Durable data storage
			Don’t store all on an EC2 instances
			Store instead in S3 or Dynamo
		Automate multi-center resilience (multiple Availability Zones)
		Introduce fault isolation and horizontal scaling
		
	Design Principles – Financial
		Optimize for cost
			Elasticity: More servers when busy, less when not busy with auto saling
			Purchasing options:
				Reserviced Capacity
				Spot Instances

	Design Principles – Caching
		Application Caching
		Edge Caching

	Design Principles – Security
		Offload security to AWS
		Reduce privileged access
		Treat security as code

	Tips
		Understand the basic services:
		Databases – RDS, DynamoDB, Red Shift
		Compute – EC2 vs Lambda
		Storage – S3 (great for static hosting)
		
		
Summary of Cloud Concepts and Tech Summary

General
	6 Advantages of Cloud
	3 Types of Cloud Computing
		Infrastructure as a Service (IAAS) – Lightsail
		Platform as a Service (PAAS)
		Software as a Service (SAAS)
	3 Types of Cloud Computing Deployment
		Public Cloud (AWS, Azure, Google Cloud)
		Hybrid (mix)
		Private Cloud (managed locally)
Difference between:
	Regions – London, Frankfurt, N. Virginia
	Availability Zones – Collections of data centers, geographically distributed
	Edge Locations – Caching
Access AWS Console by:
	Via AWS console
	Programatically using command line
	SDKs
Root account has full admin, never give out. Create user for each individuals and secure with multi-factor auth.
Groups are places to store users
Set permissions in group with policies with JSON

S3
	S3 bucket is a place to store objects
	S3 unique namespace
	Object based only, 200 status code when complete
	Storage places:
		S3 – Current data
		Glacier – Archival (2-5 hour retrieval)
	Restrict access with bucket policy
	Restrict access to indiv objects with access control lists
	S3 transfer acceleration – Upload to edge locations. Edge locations then send to central place.
	Cross-region replication – Replicate to other buckets
	S3 hosts static websites
	Scales automatically to meet demand (movie preview)

Cloudfront
	Edge Location: Location where content is cached
	Origin: Origin of files that CDN will distribute (S3, EC2, Elastic Load Balancer, Route53)
	Distribution: Name given to CDN, consists of edge locations
		Web – Websites
		RTP – Media streaming
	Can write to edge locations (S3 transfer acceleration)

EC2
	NOT SERVERLESS, compute-based
	Private key to connect
	Security Groups: Virtual firewalls in the cloud, open ports to use
	Design for failure, have one EC2 instance in each Avail Zone
	Pricing models
	Types of EC2 depending on the purpose of EC2
	EBS: Elastic block storage where you install operating system and file
	4 kinds of EBS:
		General Purpose SSD
		Provisioned IOPS SSD
		Throughput Optimized HDD
		Cold HDD
	Roles much more security and easier to managethan using access and secret access keys
	Roles are universal, no need to specify users

RDS
	Multi Avail Zone: Disaster Recovery
	Read replicas: Scaling out or performance
	DynamoDB for nonrelational, Aurora for relational, Red Shift for data warehousing
	
	
Billing
	Philosophy on pricing: Pay for what you use, start or stop using product at any time. No long-term contracts required.
	Free Tier to help new AWS users get started
	
	Pricing policies
		**Pay as you go: **EC2 used to be pay by hour, pay by second as it’s used
		Pay less when you reserve: If you reserve time ahead of time, you get a discount
		**Pay even less by unit when using more: **If you use more, you pay less per GB
		Pay even less as AWS grows
		Custom pricing for enterprise

	What’s free?
		Amazon VPC
		Elastic Beanstalk (services it provisions are not free)
		CloudFormation (services it provisions not free)
		Identity Access Management (IAM)
		Auto Scaling (EC2 instances it uses are not free)
		Opsworks
		Consolidated Billing (add all AWS accounts into one bill)

	3 Fundamental Charges
		Compute
		Storage
		Data Out to Internet (Data In is free)

	What determines price?
		Clock hours of server time (time server is running)
		Machine configuration (more resources consumed = more paid)
		Machine purchase type (some instance types cost more)
		Number of instances
		Load balancing
		Detailed monitoring (monitor EC2 by minute instead of 5-min intervals)
		Auto scaling (EC2 instances cost money)
		Elastic IP Addresses
		Operating systems (Windows) and software packages
		Elastic Compute Cloud can reserve instances ahead of time, even cheaper if you pay upfront

	S3 – What determines price?
		Storage class (Standard or IA)
		Storage amount
		Number of requests
		Data transfer (data transfer out)

	RDS – What determines price?
		Number of hours RDS is running
		Database characteristics (licensed?)
		Database purchase type (huge, nano?)
		Number of instances
		Provisioned storage (how big?)
		Requests made to database
		Deployment type (multi A-Z, read replicas)
		Data transfer out

	Cloudfront – What determines price?
		Traffic distribution
		Requests
		Data transfers out

	
Billing: Support Plans
	Basic
		Free, no tech acct mgt, no open cases
	Developer
		$29/mo, business hr access via email, no TAM, 1 person can open unlim cases
		General guidance: < 24 business hours
		System impaired: < 12 business hours
	Business
		$100/mo, 24×7 email, chat, and phone support, no TAM, unlimited cases for support
		General guidance: < 24 business hours
		System impaired: < 12 hours
		Prod system impaired: < 4 business hours
		Prod system down: < 1 hour
	Enterprise
		$15,000/mo, 24×7 email chat and phone, TAM, unlimited cases for support
		General guidance: < 24 business hours
		System impaired: < 12 hours
		Prod system impaired: < 4 business hours
		Prod system down: < 1 hour
		Business critical down: < 15 mins
		Pricing can be higher if you use AWS a lot

	Billing: Resource Groups
		Tags are key-value pairs attached to resources
		Tags can be inherited (created by one service, moves to another service)
		Resource groups: Make it easy to group resources based on tags assigned to them
		Resource groups contain info like:
			Region
			Name
			Healthchecks
			EC2 – Public/Private IP Addresses
			ELB – Port Configs
			RDS – Database Engine
		You can search for resources by a specific tag (used by a particular department, user ID, etc)
		Tag Editor allows you to find resources not tagged and add tags

	Billing: Consolidated Billing
		AWS Organization: Enables you to consolidate multiple AWS accounts into an organization that you create and centrally manage
		Consolidated billing: One monthly bill (paying account) for all linked accounts in organization
		20 linked accounts for consolidating billing
		Easy to track charges and allocate costs
		Volume pricing
		You can also reserve EC2 instances and if one group isn’t using them, you can carry them over to another group to save money
		Best practices:
			Always enable multi factor auth
			Strong and complex factor
			Restrict root access
		Billing alerts

	Exam Tips
		Consolidated billing allows you to get volume discounts for all your accounts
		Unsused reserved instances for EC2 are applied across group
		CloudTrail is on per-account and per-region basis , can be aggregated into single bucket in paying account

	AWS Quick Starts
		Allow you to enable a particular type of technology very quickly
		Templates to get you started with a server that runs a particular technology
		Uses CloudFormation based on a template URL
	AWS Cost Calculators
		Simple Monthly Calculator
			Allows you to quickly add the resources you’re going to use and the types of resources and it’ll tell you the cost of each and total monthly bill
			Not comparing what you have on premise and in cloud
		Total Cost of Ownership Calculator
			Compares against your current costs for total cost of ownership
			Takes into account:
				Server costs (hardware & software)
				Storage costs (hardware & storage admin)
				Networking costs (network hardware & network admin)
				IT labor costs

	Billing & Pricing Summary
		Remember the free services!
		AWS Support Plans and features of each
		What are tags?
		What are resource groups? Group resources based on tags
		What is the benefit of consolidated billing?
		What’s the benefit of AWS Quick Starts?
		Two different AWS calculators


AWS Compliance
	Certifications / Attestations
	AWS certified with:
		ISO 27001
		PCI DSS Level 1
		SOC 1
		SOC 2
		SOC 3
	Laws, Regulations, Privacy
		HIPAA compliant – Meets standards to store health information
	Alignments / Frameworks
		G-Cloud (UK) – Frameworks for government customers to meet these requirements in UK
	
Shared Responsibility Model
	AWS manages security of cloud, security in cloud itself is responsibilty of customer. Customers are responsibility for security of how AWS is set up. AWS is responsible for the infrastructure
	Do you have the ability to stop something from happening? If you dont have the ability to stop it, it’s Amazon’s responsibility
	You have control over encryption, customer data

AWS Web Application Firewall and AWS Shield

	AWS WAF
		Application firewall that helps protect your web apps from common web exploits that could affect availability, compromise security, 
		or consume excessive resources
		AWF can read data hacker is sending and can intervene on your behalf
		Prevents common attacks
		Goes down to Layer 7
	AWS Shield
		Managed DDOS service
		Provides safeguards for web apps running on AWS Two tiers:
		Standard – Free, avail automatically
		Advanced – Advanced protection for $3000/mo
		Layer 3
		Layer 4
		AWS Shield Advanced provides expanded DDoS attack protection for web applications running on which of the following resources
		AWS Global Accelerator
		Amazon Route 53
AWS Inspector vs AWS Trusted Advisor

	AWS Inspector
		Automated security assessment service
		Automatically asses apps for vulnerabilities or deviations from best practices
		Assessment done, provides detailed list of security findings prioritized by leve of severity

	AWS Trusted Advisor
		Optimizes AWS environment to reduce cost, increase performance and improve security
		Cost Optimization (do you have an EC2 with nothing happening on it or an empty DB?)
		Performance
		Security
		Fault Tolerance (are you using multiple avail zones?)
		Two options:
		Core checks and recommendations 2 Full trusted advisor – business/enterprise only

	Security Summary
		Name some of the compliance that AWS meets (above)
		Define what shared responsibility means
		AWS WAF reads data and blocks traffic if it will cause problems
		AWS shield blocks DDOS attacks. Two tiers: Standard and Advanced
		Inspector looks for vulnerabilies on your EC2 instances.
		Advisor gives suggestions for improvement, advanced one requires business subscription	
		
		
AWS Well-Architected Framework
	Is a set of best practices and guidelines developed by Amazon Web Services (AWS) to help cloud architects 
	build secure, high-performing, resilient, and efficient infrastructure for their applications. 		
	The Well-Architected Framework is based on five pillars, each representing a key aspect of a well-designed cloud workload:
	Operational Excellence: run and monitor systems, and continually improve processes and procedures.
	Security: robust security controls to protect data, systems, and assets. It covers IAM, data protection, and monitoring.
	Reliability: recover from failures and meet customer demands. This pillar addresses topics 
		such as fault tolerance, disaster recovery, and system availability.
		There are three best practice areas for Reliability in the cloud – Foundations, Change Management, Failure Management. Being aware of how change affects a system (change management) allows you to plan proactively, and monitoring allows you to quickly identify trends that could lead to capacity issues or SLA breaches.
		AWS Config – AWS Config is a service that enables you to assess, audit, and evaluate the configurations of your AWS resources. Config continuously monitors and records your AWS resource configurations and allows you to automate the evaluation of recorded configurations against desired configurations.
		AWS CloudTrail – AWS CloudTrail is a service that enables governance, compliance, operational auditing, and risk auditing of your AWS account. With CloudTrail, you can log, continuously monitor, and retain account activity related to actions across your AWS infrastructure. CloudTrail provides event history of your AWS account activity, including actions taken through the AWS Management Console, AWS SDKs, command-line tools, and other AWS services.
	Performance Efficiency: considerations for selecting the right resources, monitoring performance, and making continuous improvements.
	Cost Optimization: Emphasizes the importance of managing costs to ensure maximum efficiency. 
		such as resource optimization, selecting the right pricing models, and monitoring and controlling costs.	 

Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) provides several storage classes, each designed 
	to meet different performance, durability, and cost requirements. 
	The choice of a specific storage class depends on factors such as access frequency, retrieval latency, and budget constraints. As of my knowledge cutoff in January 2022, here are the commonly used S3 storage classes:
	1. **Standard:** This is the default storage class, offering high durability, availability, and low-latency performance. 
		It is suitable for frequently accessed data.
	2. **Intelligent-Tiering:** This storage class is designed for data with unknown or changing access patterns. 
		It automatically moves objects between two access tiers (frequent and infrequent access) based on changing access patterns, 
		while optimizing costs.
	3. **One Zone-Infrequent Access (Z-IA):** This class stores data in a single availability zone, 
		providing a lower-cost option compared to Standard-IA. 
		However, it doesn't replicate data across multiple availability zones, so it's not suitable for critical, highly available data.
	4. **Glacier:** Glacier is a low-cost storage class for archiving and long-term backup. 
		It is designed for infrequently accessed data with retrieval times ranging from minutes to hours.
	5. **Glacier Deep Archive:** This is the lowest-cost storage class for archiving data for the long term. 
		It is suitable for data that is rarely accessed and can tolerate a retrieval time of 12 hours or more.

Amazon GuardDuty – Amazon GuardDuty is a threat detection service that monitors malicious activity and unauthorized behavior to protect 
	your AWS account. GuardDuty analyzes billions of events across your AWS accounts from AWS CloudTrail 
	(AWS user and API activity in your accounts), Amazon VPC Flow Logs (network traffic data), and DNS Logs (name query patterns). 
	This service is for AWS account level access, not for instance-level management like an EC2. 
	GuardDuty cannot be used to check OS vulnerabilities.
Amazon Macie – Amazon Macie is a fully managed data security and data privacy service that 
	uses machine learning and pattern matching to discover and protect your sensitive data in AWS. 
	Macie helps identify and alert you to sensitive data, such as personally identifiable information (PII). 


Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC) 
	is a service offered by Amazon Web Services (AWS) that allows you to provision a logically isolated section of the AWS Cloud 
	where you can launch AWS resources in a virtual network that you define. 
	VPC provides a way to create a private, secure, and scalable environment within the AWS Cloud.

	Here are key aspects and features of Amazon VPC:

		1. **Isolation:** With VPC, you can create a private, isolated network within the AWS Cloud. 
			This isolation is achieved by logically segmenting the AWS infrastructure into virtual networks.
		2. **Subnets:** You can divide your VPC into subnets, allowing you to organize and segment your resources within the VPC. 
			Subnets can be either public or private, depending on their accessibility from the internet.
		3. **Internet Gateway:** To enable communication between your VPC and the internet, 
			you can attach an Internet Gateway to the VPC. 
			This allows instances in public subnets to communicate directly with the internet.
		4. **NAT Gateway/NAT Instance:** For instances in private subnets to access the internet 
			(for example, to download updates), you can use a Network Address Translation (NAT) Gateway or a NAT instance.
		5. **Security Groups and Network Access Control Lists (ACLs):** You can control inbound and outbound traffic to 
			and from your instances using security groups (stateful) and network ACLs (stateless).
		6. **Elastic Load Balancing:** VPC allows you to use Elastic Load Balancing to distribute incoming 
			traffic across multiple instances for increased availability and fault tolerance.
		7. **VPC Peering:** You can connect one VPC with another VPC within the same or different AWS accounts, 
			allowing the instances in different VPCs to communicate as if they were on the same network.
		8. **VPN Connections and Direct Connect:** VPC supports secure connections to your on-premises network 
			via Virtual Private Network (VPN) or AWS Direct Connect.
		9. **VPC Endpoints:** Allows you to privately connect your VPC to supported AWS services 
			(e.g., Amazon S3) without requiring internet traffic to flow through your VPC's internet gateway.
		10. **VPC Flow Logs:** You can capture information about IP traffic going to and from network interfaces in your VPC, 
			providing insights into network traffic patterns.

Site-to-Site VPN – AWS Site-to-Site VPN creates a secure connection between your data center or branch office 
	and your AWS cloud resources. This connection goes over the public internet.
	
Instance Store
	An instance store provides temporary block-level storage for your instance. This storage is located on disks that are physically 
	attached to the host computer. 
	EFS – Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS) provides a simple, scalable, fully managed, elastic NFS file system. 
		EFS is not available as a hardware disk on the instance, so this option is not correct.
		encrytion is optional in transit and rest
	EBS – Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS) is an easy to use, 
		high-performance block storage service designed for use with Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) 
		for both throughput and transaction-intensive workloads at any scale. 
		encrytion is optional in transit and rest
	EBS is not available as a hardware disk on the instance, so this option is not correct.
	encrytion is optional in transit and rest
	S3 – Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is an object storage service that offers 
		industry-leading scalability, data availability, security, and performance. 
		S3 is not available as a hardware disk on the instance, so this option is not correct.	
		encrytion is optional in transit and rest
		
AWS CloudTrail 
	is a service that enables governance, compliance, operational auditing, and risk auditing of your AWS account. 
	CloudTrail can be used to record AWS API calls and other activity for your AWS account and 
	save the recorded information to log files in an Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) bucket that you choose. 
	By default, the log files delivered by CloudTrail to your S3 bucket are encrypted using server-side encryption 
	with Amazon S3–managed encryption keys (SSE-S3).		
Step Function – AWS Step Function lets you coordinate multiple AWS services into serverless workflows. 
	You can design and run workflows that stitch together services such as AWS Lambda, AWS Glue and Amazon SageMaker

APN Consulting Partner
The AWS Partner Network (APN) is the global partner program for technology and consulting businesses that 
	leverage Amazon Web Services to build solutions and services for customers.
APN Consulting Partners are professional services firms that help customers of all types and 
	sizes design, architect, build, migrate, and manage their workloads and applications on AWS, 
	accelerating their migration to AWS cloud.

APN Technology Partner – 
	APN Technology Partners provide hardware, connectivity services, or software solutions that are 
	either hosted on or integrated with, the AWS Cloud. APN Technology Partners cannot help in migrating to 
	AWS and managing applications on AWS Cloud.
	
Concierge Support Team – The Concierge Support Team are AWS billing and account experts that specialize
	in working with enterprise accounts. They will quickly and efficiently assist you with 
	your billing and account inquiries. The Concierge Support Team is only available for the Enterprise Support plan. 
	Concierge Support Team cannot help in migrating to AWS and managing applications on AWS Cloud.

The AWS Professional Services organization is a global team of experts that can help you realize your desired business outcomes when using the AWS Cloud. AWS Professional Services consultants can supplement your team with specialized skills and experience that can help you achieve quick results.
AWS Landing Zone is a solution that helps customers more quickly set up a secure, multi-account AWS environment based on AWS best practices. This solution can help save time by automating the set-up of an environment for running secure and scalable workloads while implementing an initial security baseline through the creation of core accounts and resources.
Therefore, leveraging AWS Professional Services along with AWS Landing Zone can accelerate the infrastructure migration for the startup.
Utilize AWS Partner Network (APN) to build a custom solution for this infrastructure migration
The AWS Partner Network (APN) is the global partner program for technology and consulting businesses that leverage Amazon Web Services to build solutions and services for customers. The startup can work with experts from APN to build a custom solution for this infrastructure migration.

Think resource performance monitoring, events, and alerts; think CloudWatch.
Think account-specific activity and audit; think CloudTrail.
Think resource-specific change history, audit, and compliance; think Config.


AWS Storage Gateway is a hybrid cloud storage service that connects your existing on-premises environments with the AWS Cloud. Customers use Storage Gateway to simplify storage management and reduce costs for key hybrid cloud storage use cases. These include moving tape backups to the cloud, reducing on-premises storage with cloud-backed file shares, providing low latency access to data in AWS for on-premises applications, as well as various migration, archiving, processing, and disaster recovery use cases.
AWS Storage Gateway service provides three different types of gateways – Tape Gateway, File Gateway, and Volume Gateway – that seamlessly connect on-premises applications to cloud storage, caching data locally for low-latency access.


Which of the following AWS services support reservations to optimize costs? (Select three) as reserved options are available
EC2 Instances
DynamoDB
RDS


Use AWS Organizations to manage AWS accounts of all units and then share the reserved EC2 instances amongst all units
AWS Organizations helps you to centrally manage billing; control access, compliance, and security; and share resources across your AWS accounts. Using AWS Organizations, you can automate account creation, create groups of accounts to reflect your business needs, and apply policies for these groups for governance. You can also simplify billing by setting up a single payment method for all of your AWS accounts. AWS Organizations is available to all AWS customers at no additional charge.

AWS Artifact is your go-to, central resource for compliance-related information that matters to your organization. It provides on-demand access to AWS’ security and compliance reports and select online agreements. Reports available in AWS Artifact include our Service Organization Control (SOC) reports, Payment Card Industry (PCI) reports, and certifications from accreditation bodies across geographies and compliance verticals that validate the implementation and operating effectiveness of AWS security controls. Different types of agreements are available in AWS Artifact Agreements to address the needs of customers subject to specific regulations. For example, the Business Associate Addendum (BAA) is available for customers that need to comply with the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). It is not a service, it’s a no-cost, self-service portal for on-demand access to AWS’ compliance reports.


AWS offers three different support plans to cater to each of its customers – Developer, Business, and Enterprise Support plans. A basic support plan is included for all AWS customers.
AWS Enterprise Support provides customers with concierge-like service where the 
main focus is on helping the customer achieve their outcomes and find success in the cloud. 
With Enterprise Support, you get access to online training with self-paced labs, 24×7 technical support from 
high-quality engineers, tools and technology to automatically manage the health of your environment, consultative architectural guidance, 
a designated Technical Account Manager (TAM) to coordinate access to proactive/preventative programs and AWS subject matter experts.




Which of the following AWS services support VPC Endpoint Gateway for a private connection from a VPC? (Select two)
Correct option:
S3
DynamoDB
A VPC endpoint enables you to privately connect your VPC to supported AWS services and VPC endpoint services powered by AWS PrivateLink without requiring an internet gateway, NAT device, VPN connection, or AWS Direct Connect connection. Instances in your VPC do not require public IP addresses to communicate with resources in the service. Traffic between your VPC and the other service does not leave the Amazon network.
There are two types of VPC endpoints: interface endpoints and gateway endpoints.
An interface endpoint is an elastic network interface with a private IP address from the IP address range of your subnet that serves as an entry point for traffic destined to a supported service. Interface endpoints are powered by AWS PrivateLink, a technology that enables you to privately access services by using private IP addresses.
A gateway endpoint is a gateway that you specify as a target for a route in your route table for traffic destined to a supported AWS service. The following AWS services are supported:
Amazon S3
DynamoDB
Exam Alert:
You may see a question around this concept in the exam. Just remember that only S3 and DynamoDB support VPC Endpoint Gateway. All other services that support VPC Endpoints use a VPC Endpoint Interface.
Incorrect options:
Amazon EC2
Amazon SQS
Amazon SNS
As explained earlier, these services support VPC Endpoint Interfaces.


Which of the following AWS Support plans provides access to Infrastructure Event Management for an additional fee?

Incorrect
Correct option:
Business – AWS recommends Business Support if you have production workloads on AWS and want 24×7 phone, email and chat access to technical support and architectural guidance in the context of your specific use-cases. You get full access to AWS Trusted Advisor Best Practice Checks. Also, you get access to Infrastructure Event Management for an additional fee.
Incorrect options:
Developer – AWS recommends Developer Support if you are testing or doing early development on AWS and want the ability to get email-based technical support during business hours as well as general architectural guidance as you build and test. You do not get access to Infrastructure Event Management with this plan.
Basic – The basic plan only provides access to the following:
Customer Service & Communities – 24×7 access to customer service, documentation, whitepapers, and support forums. AWS Trusted Advisor – Access to the 7 core Trusted Advisor checks and guidance to provision your resources following best practices to increase performance and improve security. AWS Personal Health Dashboard – A personalized view of the health of AWS services, and alerts when your resources are impacted. You do not get access to Infrastructure Event Management with this plan.
Enterprise – AWS Enterprise Support provides customers with concierge-like service where the main focus is helping the customer achieve their outcomes and find success in the cloud. With Enterprise Support, you get 24×7 technical support from high-quality engineers, tools and technology to automatically manage the health of your environment, consultative architectural guidance delivered in the context of your applications and use-cases, and a designated Technical Account Manager (TAM) to coordinate access to proactive/preventative programs and AWS subject matter experts. Access to Infrastructure Event Management is included in the plan.
Reference:
https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/plans/

Which AWS service can be used to review the compliance and governance-related documents on AWS?
AWS Artifact is your central resource for compliance-related information on AWS Cloud. It provides on-demand access to AWS’ security and compliance reports and select online agreements. Reports available in AWS Artifact include the Service Organization Control (SOC) reports, Payment Card Industry (PCI) reports, and certifications from accreditation bodies across geographies. Agreements available in AWS Artifact also include the Business Associate Addendum (BAA) and the Nondisclosure Agreement (NDA).


An IT company wants to run a log backup process every Monday at 2 AM. The usual runtime of the process is 5 minutes. As a Cloud Practitioner, which AWS services would you recommend to build a serverless solution for this use-case? (Select two)
Correct option:
CloudWatch – Amazon CloudWatch is a monitoring and observability service built for DevOps engineers, developers, site reliability engineers (SREs), and IT managers. CloudWatch provides data and actionable insights to monitor applications, respond to system-wide performance changes, optimize resource utilization, and get a unified view of operational health.
Lambda – AWS Lambda lets you run code without provisioning or managing servers. You pay only for the compute time you consume. The lambda has a maximum execution time of 15 minutes, so it can be used to run this log backup process.
To build the solution for the given use-case, you can create a CloudWatch Events rule that triggers on a schedule via a cron expression. You can then set the Lambda as the target for this rule.


AWS Trusted Advisor can provide alerts on which of the following common security misconfigurations? (Select two)?
Correct options:
When you allow public access to Amazon S3 buckets
When you don’t turn on user activity logging (AWS CloudTrail)
AWS Trusted Advisor is an online tool that provides real-time guidance to help provision your resources following AWS best practices. Whether establishing new workflows, developing applications, or as part of ongoing improvement, recommendations provided by Trusted Advisor regularly help keep your solutions provisioned optimally. AWS Trusted Advisor analyzes your AWS environment and provides best practice recommendations in five categories: Cost Optimization, Performance, Security, Fault Tolerance, Service Limits.
Trusted Advisor inspects your AWS environment and makes recommendations when opportunities may exist to save money, improve system performance, or close security gaps. It provides alerts on several of the most common security misconfigurations that can occur, including leaving certain ports open that make you vulnerable to hacking and unauthorized access, neglecting to create IAM accounts for your internal users, allowing public access to Amazon S3 buckets, not turning on user activity logging (AWS CloudTrail), or not using MFA on your root AWS Account.
How Trusted Advisor Works:  via – https://aws.amazon.com/premiumsupport/technology/trusted-advisor/

A financial services company wants to migrate from its on-premises data center to AWS Cloud. As a Cloud Practitioner, which AWS service would you recommend so that the company can compare the cost of running their IT infrastructure on-premises vs AWS Cloud?AWS Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) Calculator
TCO calculator helps to compare the cost of your applications in an on-premises or traditional hosting environment to AWS. AWS helps reduce Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) by reducing the need to invest in large capital expenditures and providing a pay-as-you-go model that empowers to invest in the capacity you need and use it only when the business requires it. Once you describe your on-premises or hosting environment configuration, it produces a detailed cost comparison with AWS.
Incorrect options:
AWS Simple Monthly Calculator – The Simple Monthly Calculator helps customers and prospects estimate their monthly AWS bill more efficiently. The Simple Monthly Calculator cannot be used to compare the cost of running the IT infrastructure on-premises vs AWS Cloud.
AWS Cost Explorer – AWS Cost Explorer has an easy-to-use interface that lets you visualize, understand, and manage your AWS costs and usage over time. AWS Cost Explorer includes a default report that helps you visualize the costs and usage associated with your top five cost-accruing AWS services, and gives you a detailed breakdown of all services in the table view. The reports let you adjust the time range to view historical data going back up to twelve months to gain an understanding of your cost trends. AWS Cost Explorer cannot be used to compare the cost of running the IT infrastructure on-premises vs AWS Cloud.
AWS Budgets – AWS Budgets gives the ability to set custom budgets that alert you when your costs or usage exceed (or are forecasted to exceed) your budgeted amount. You can also use AWS Budgets to set reservation utilization or coverage targets and receive alerts when your utilization drops below the threshold you define. Budgets can be created at the monthly, quarterly, or yearly level, and you can customize the start and end dates. You can further refine your budget to track costs associated with multiple dimensions, such as AWS service, linked account, tag, and others. AWS Budgets cannot be used to compare the cost of running the IT infrastructure on-premises vs AWS Cloud.


Which of the following AWS storage services can be directly used with on-premises systems?
Correct option: Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS)
Amazon Elastic File System (Amazon EFS) provides a simple, scalable, fully managed elastic NFS file system for use with AWS Cloud services and on-premises resources.
To access EFS file systems from on-premises, you must have an AWS Direct Connect or AWS VPN connection between your on-premises datacenter and your Amazon VPC. You mount an EFS file system on your on-premises Linux server using the standard Linux mount command for mounting a file system
How EFS Works:  via – https://aws.amazon.com/efs/faq/
Incorrect options:
Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS) – Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS) is an easy to use, high-performance block storage service designed for use with Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) for both throughput and transaction-intensive workloads at any scale. EBS volumes can only be mounted with Amazon EC2.
Amazon EC2 Instance Store – An instance store provides temporary block-level storage for your Amazon EC2 instance. This storage is located on disks that are physically attached to the host computer. It is not possible to use this storage from on-premises systems.
Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) – Amazon Simple Storage Service (Amazon S3) is an object storage service that offers industry-leading scalability, data availability, security, and performance. Amazon S3 can be accessed from on-premises only via AWS Storage Gateway. It is not possible to access S3 directly from on-premises systems.
Reference:
https://aws.amazon.com/efs/faq/


AWS Shield Advanced provides expanded DDoS attack protection for web applications running on which of the following resources? (Select two)
Amazon CloudFront
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud
AWS Shield Standard is activated for all AWS customers, by default. For higher levels of protection against attacks, you can subscribe to AWS Shield Advanced. With Shield Advanced, you also have exclusive access to advanced, real-time metrics and reports for extensive visibility into attacks on your AWS resources. With the assistance of the DRT (DDoS response team), AWS Shield Advanced includes intelligent DDoS attack detection and mitigation for not only for network layer (layer 3) and transport layer (layer 4) attacks but also for application layer (layer 7) attacks.
AWS Shield Advanced provides expanded DDoS attack protection for web applications running on the following resources: Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud, Elastic Load Balancing (ELB), Amazon CloudFront, Amazon Route 53, AWS Global Accelerator.


A multi-national organization has separate VPCs for each of its business units on the AWS Cloud. The organization also wants to connect its on-premises data center with all VPCs for better organization-wide collaboration. Which AWS services can be combined to build the MOST efficient solution for this use-case? (Select two)

Correct option:
AWS Transit Gateway
AWS Transit Gateway connects VPCs and on-premises networks through a central hub. This simplifies your network and puts an end to complex peering relationships. It acts as a cloud router – each new connection is only made once. As you expand globally, inter-Region peering connects AWS Transit Gateways using the AWS global network. Your data is automatically encrypted and never travels over the public internet.
How Transit Gateway can simplify your network:  via – https://aws.amazon.com/transit-gateway/
AWS Direct Connect
AWS Direct Connect is a cloud service solution that makes it easy to establish a dedicated network connection from your premises to AWS. Using AWS Direct Connect, you can establish private connectivity between AWS and your datacenter, office, or colocation environment, which in many cases can reduce your network costs, increase bandwidth throughput, and provide a more consistent network experience than Internet-based connections.
Incorrect options:
VPC Peering – A VPC peering connection is a networking connection between two VPCs that enables you to route traffic between them privately. VPC peering is not transitive, a separate VPC peering connection has to be made between two VPCs that need to talk to each other. With growing VPCs, this gets difficult to manage.
Transitive VPC Peering is not allowed:  via – https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/peering/invalid-peering-configurations.html
Internet Gateway – An internet gateway is a horizontally scaled, redundant, and highly available VPC component that allows communication between instances in your VPC and the internet. It, therefore, imposes no availability risks or bandwidth constraints on your network traffic. You cannot use Internet Gateway to connect your on-premises data center with multiple VPCs within your AWS network.
AWS Storage Gateway – AWS Storage Gateway is a hybrid cloud storage service that gives you on-premises access to virtually unlimited cloud storage. All data transferred between the gateway and AWS storage is encrypted using SSL (for all three types of gateways – File, Volume and Tape Gateways). You cannot use Storage Gateway to connect your on-premises data center with multiple VPCs within your AWS network.
Reference:
https://aws.amazon.com/transit-gateway/


Threat detection is of paramount importance for security in the Cloud. Which AWS service offers this key feature?

Correct option:
Amazon GuardDuty
Amazon GuardDuty is a threat detection service that monitors malicious activity and unauthorized behavior to protect your AWS account. GuardDuty analyzes billions of events across your AWS accounts from AWS CloudTrail (AWS user and API activity in your accounts), Amazon VPC Flow Logs (network traffic data), and DNS Logs (name query patterns).
How GuardDuty Works:  via – https://aws.amazon.com/guardduty/
Incorrect options:
Amazon Inspector – Amazon Inspector is an automated, security assessment service that helps you check for unintended network accessibility of your Amazon EC2 instances and for vulnerabilities on those EC2 instances. Amazon Inspector assessments are offered to you as pre-defined rules packages mapped to common security best practices and vulnerability definitions.
AWS Shield – AWS Shield is a managed Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) protection service that safeguards applications running on AWS. AWS Shield provides always-on detection and automatic inline mitigations that minimize application downtime and latency, so there is no need to engage AWS Support to benefit from DDoS protection.
AWS CloudHSM – AWS CloudHSM is a cloud-based hardware security module (HSM) that enables you to easily generate and use your encryption keys on the AWS Cloud. With CloudHSM, you can manage your encryption keys using FIPS 140-2 Level 3 validated HSMs. It is a fully-managed service that automates time-consuming administrative tasks for you, such as hardware provisioning, software patching, high-availability, and backups.
Reference:
https://aws.amazon.com/guardduty/

Which AWS entity enables you to privately connect your VPC to an Amazon SQS queue?
Correct option:
VPC Interface Endpoint
An interface endpoint is an elastic network interface with a private IP address from the IP address range of your subnet that serves as an entry point for traffic destined to a supported service. Interface endpoints are powered by AWS PrivateLink, a technology that enables you to privately access services by using private IP addresses. AWS PrivateLink restricts all network traffic between your VPC and services to the Amazon network. You do not need an internet gateway, a NAT device, or a virtual private gateway.
Exam Alert:
You may see a question around this concept in the exam. Just remember that only S3 and DynamoDB support VPC Endpoint Gateway. All other services that support VPC Endpoints use a VPC Endpoint Interface.
Incorrect options:
VPC Gateway Endpoint – A Gateway Endpoint is a gateway that you specify as a target for a route in your route table for traffic destined to a supported AWS service. The following AWS services are supported: Amazon S3, DynamoDB. You cannot use VPC Gateway Endpoint to privately connect your VPC to an Amazon SQS queue.
AWS Direct Connect – AWS Direct Connect is a cloud service solution that makes it easy to establish a dedicated network connection from your premises to AWS. You can use AWS Direct Connect to establish a private virtual interface from your on-premise network directly to your Amazon VPC. This private connection takes at least one month for completion. You cannot use AWS Direct Connect to privately connect your VPC to an Amazon SQS queue.
Internet Gateway – An Internet Gateway is a horizontally scaled, redundant, and highly available VPC component that allows communication between your VPC and the internet. An internet gateway serves two purposes: to provide a target in your VPC route tables for internet-routable traffic, and to perform network address translation (NAT) for instances that have been assigned public IPv4 addresses. You cannot use an Internet Gateway to privately connect your VPC to an Amazon SQS queue.
Reference:
https://docs.aws.amazon.com/vpc/latest/userguide/vpc-endpoints.html
